# Data-Mining-Project
Data mining project aimed to showcase skills in data mining and analysis

# What is this Project?
The data mining analysis artifact is a project that was created to help us learn and understand the field of data mining. We were tasked to analyze a database warehouse of a fictious company called the “Bubba Gump Shrimp Company”. The goal was to analyze the company’s data and determine why their online sales have been gradually falling while their on-site sales have not. A database warehouse, customer data and sales reports were provided and through these various databases, analysis began. Patterns and correlations between online stores, on-site stores and costumers were found and visual charts were created to help represent these correlations. Finally, a report was written to present all evidence that was discovered. This finalized report was designed to help the company see why sales had dropped and therefore help them make the necessary changes to improve their company.

The data analysis artifact was created in an eight-week period for the data mining course. This course taught us how to analyze data and make logical connections. These logical connections eventually helped us understand the data and allowed us to create visual charts to represent correlations, patterns and significant findings in the data. 	

# Justification for Inclusion to ePortfolio
This artifact was the last one I chose for my ePortfolio. I decided on this artifact for two main reasons. The first reason was that I wanted to include an artifact that showcased my skills in another area in computer science other than programming. The first two artifacts focus on programming only while this data mining artifact showcases my skills in data analysis and visual chart creation. This artifact focuses mainly on data analysis through analyzing various databases and therefore focuses on the key computer science area, databases. 
The data mining artifact is the strongest project I have created that deals with areas in computer science other than programming. The 40-page report that was created took the full eight weeks and many late 4am nights to complete. I am very proud of this artifact because I enjoyed the data analysis that took place to create the final report. This artifact also best represents my skills in analyzing data and thus I am including it in the ePortfolio
